# Computer Audio Sonification Project
## Summary
This is a simulator for an auditory display system for ballet training. <br>
An auditory display system would encourage effective dance training techniques by helping student dancers advance their proprioception, awareness of their body related to muscle memory. The system will support ballet students while training fundamental skills and while running combinations. In ballet, it can be difficult to understand proper form and technique relying on visuals alone which leads to bad habits resulting in injury. Through the sonification of muscle contraction, weight distribution, and body position data, dancers will better understand the details of and reinforce the structure of discrete fundamental movements, and dancers will be able to maintain awareness of their body and their execution of technique during more complex combinations. Dancers will not only be able to feel the correct technique, but they will be able to hear it, allowing for easier replication. This will allow for injury prevention and more effective training both inside of and outside of the studio.

The simulator runs in Processing and can be driven by JSON events or by manipulations in real time. For best results, listen to the simulator with headphones.

## Project Guide and Process
This repository includes all of the documents and code developed while creating this project. The project began with user and domain research to investigate potential situations that could be enhanced with sonification systems (see User_and_Domain_Research.pdf). I then developed a user persona and user scenarios based on my preliminary research (see User_Persona_Scenarios.pdf). Then, I created a project proposal to set up my project goals, general software architecture, and timeline (see proposal). The completed simulator can be found in the simulator folder. To run the simulator, open the simulator.pde file in Processing and follow the User_Manual.pdf as a guide. After completing the simulator, I created a plan to evaluate the simulator's effectiveness and to find its holes (see Evaluation_Draft). Finally, after running the evaluation with three participants, I compiled and evaluated the data into a final research paper (see Final_Evaluation.pdf).
